so you see the importance of my little
black boxes it's actually got the tools
of my trade in and if the worst comes to
the worst if the BBC goes bust I can
still get a job as a cook any day and in
fact actually a cook is what I am and
although I've been enjoying myself with
the oysters outside Len did give me some
mussels and I thought it'd be quite good
if I cooked you a few of limbs muscles
have come from the river which is right
outside this kitchen where I'm sitting
now Erika's kitchen it's really great
I'm standing not sitting but one of the
very important things about mussels and
this is a mussel here it's got this
beard this is the bit attached itself to
the rocks with the where it lives is
held on by this beard obviously it's
inedible vital thing ripped that right
off on it by the way it's quite a hard
task but you want to rip that thing off
another thing that mussels often do to
you and confound all of your best laid
plans is often they're full of mud and
if you've cooked them as you'll see in
the moment and one them is full of mud
then you've blown it so the essential
test with every muscle put it sideways
like that and if it was full of mud you
would have separated to reveal two
halves of mud that one's good so just to
repeat that do clean off everything if
it's got barnacles scrape it use a knife
scrape it away get them as clean as you
can right that's enough lessons what we
want to do now is get on with the actual
cooking process of these things because
they're beautiful and actually Erica
whose kitchen this is cleaned a pile of
them for me oh you're on speeds things
up makes life a lot better because
mussels are fun because you can cook
them in white wine which is one of the
prime ingredients of this particular
litigation I'll just open that just some
dry white wine if you can't afford dry
white wine use some dry cider doesn't
matter too much if you're going to stop
eating mussels because you've got no
wine or cider then use a little drop of
water but if you can use some wine other
ingredients are one onion for the amount
of mussels we are doing a load of garlic
here make sure they can see this garlic
and then quite a bit of parsley
we'll say about that much parsley and we
want a bit of butter and you can't
economize on these things you know chuck
in quarter pound of butter into a pan
like that well that butters melting I'm
going to crush these cloves of garlic
there's no need to peel
them by the way because you weren't
actually eating the garlic you'll just
be using the flavor of it so you're
wasting your time you could be better
off having a glass of wine instead of
painfully getting garlic skin under your
nails actually on the subject of wine
it's a myth that you have to drink white
wine with fish you can drink anything
you like red wines perfectly alright
and I'm gonna have a drop of that just
for the moment under this intense
pressure we've been working this morning
to eat oysters and cockles and things
right little slope goes down very well
we're gonna chop the onions as soon as
always you can show off doing this it's
quite good you chop it finely like that
and then back like that and you never
cut your fingers which is quite
important because the mess the resulting
mess is an inconvenience chop chop chop
fast as you like or as slow as you like
but actually although I can sort of
showing off in half away I'd rather you
didn't show off at home and cut your
fingers I'd rather you enjoyed the
mussels you know take your time over
actually I think with things like this
you know it's a cheap meal to prepare
it's a feast as well so now we want to
get all of these elegantly prepared
ingredients popped in to the melted
butter chuck them in just to remind you
again I'm sure you haven't paid proper
attention
it is parsley garlic onions and butter
right maximum heat I don't cook on
electricity all that often as a matter
of fact so it's like on the last thing
we did on damn boating made me kind of
camping getting no electricity
in they all go all the lovely muscles
might had a drop of white wine talking
of wish I actually haven't had a drink
for a while do you think you'd do me any
harm to have a quick slurp cuz it's hot
in the kitchen one needs a drink from
time to time now I'm gonna put the lid
on let them stay away for a while you
can you know just stop because they
gotta cook for a few moments come back
when I'm ready okay
okay you can come back now all right
bring your camera and I'm gonna take the
lid off and if it's all gone well you're
gonna see these little dreams opening up
now you see look at those bubbling away
thing always test the stuff God already
tasting terribly good I'll give those a
little stir around with the thing here
you see how they're beginning to get
into open its deadly any that don't open
through this after this cooking process
is complete don't eat them the ones that
don't open are gonna get dead but come
right in there Malcolm would you please
look you've got wonderful colors in
there you've got steam bubbling up you
got the whole heart of food happening
here come closer closer closer now
ladies and gentlemen and 1:12 you would
we've met on this trip of all thought
we're bit strange they'll have a
magnificent dish of mulier okay Salaria
cooking is done
we've got Erica's mixing bowl I'd
actually wanted some rather fine sort of
porcelain but beggars which we are I can
assure you we can't be choosers anyway
these mussels are cooked little mean to
the bow I'm not going to put all the
juice in that's why I'm using this spoon
little holes in your feet because we
don't want to burn on glasses fingers
when we eat them with our fingers we're
gonna drink Lee sauce a little bit
separately later on
it was run for the quickie but I'm
actually quite hungry despite all the
oysters we had earlier on although I
minute hold on a minute hold it hold it
hold it
they are hot hot but good very very good
say what if you just hold them that you
just keep gazing at these would you can
you come in close I only get error for a
moment hold on there you'll keep looking
at them they're very beautiful
Erica could you spare a moment please
Erica could you I'm sorry to interrupt
you you couldn't come through to your of
your kitchen could you because what I'd
like you to do we've left your dreadful
mess here come round look at Erica
because this is her kitchen we've ruined
it all morning we've trampled over the
lawn with abused her oyster farm we've
drunk her why and we've used her
electricity and gas and all I've got to
offer you is either and the choice is
yours one of my muscles or big kiss Oh
which will you have a kiss thanks ever
so much
we've really enjoyed being here and
that's everybody it's been great
thanks a million you're welcome very
welcome try a muscle at the same time I
wish you wouldn't interrupt with my
program for God's sake have a muscle
anyway have a little quite hot and then
let me give you a little bit of juice if
I can find it I know they're in here cuz
I've been looking around the kitchen all
morning and eat that one that put until
what put a little juice in there as well
and see how you like if you don't like
it tell them cuz I always lie about it
later in fact you do totally don't like
it we'll cut it out of the film it
wasn't something mom
difficult thanks
[Music]